HAI-1538 cycling infra (#289)
City-of-Helsinki/haitaton-backend: scripts/gis-material-update/data/README.md

# Contents

This directory is for saving external source files,
e.g. GIS materials provided via email.

# Usage

Ideally, there would be no need to copy files into this directory, but all source
materials should be available via API or via download from public sources.

Materials that are not yet available via public sources, are listed in this document.

## Cycling infra

Current implementation assumes cycling infra source file in this directory.

Copy [source file](https://helsinginkaupunki.sharepoint.com/:u:/r/sites/KYMPHaitaton/Jaetut%20asiakirjat/General/02_Taustamateriaalit/Laastariaineisto/haitaton_2_input/helsinki_cycleways.gpkg?csf=1&web=1&e=pR3rqm)
from Sharepoint to this directory.

### Instructions to generate combined file

> If (for any reason) there is a need to generate combined cycling infra file,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If (for any reason) there is a need to regenerate the cycling infra source file,
```

it can be done using following procedure.

Cycling infra source materials are available:

- [Main routes](https://helsinginkaupunki.sharepoint.com/:u:/r/sites/KYMPHaitaton/Jaetut%20asiakirjat/General/02_Taustamateriaalit/Laastariaineisto/haitaton2spatial/input/Helsinki_pp_paareitit.zip?csf=1&web=1&e=gT8SUz)
- [prioritized routes](https://helsinginkaupunki.sharepoint.com/:u:/r/sites/KYMPHaitaton/Jaetut%20asiakirjat/General/02_Taustamateriaalit/Laastariaineisto/haitaton2spatial/input/priorisoidut_reitit.zip?csf=1&web=1&e=75maG1)

Extract zipped shapefiles.

Create one cycling output file combining both infra data:

```sh
$ ogr2ogr -nln pp -nlt MULTILINESTRING \
    -f GPKG helsinki_cycleways.gpkg \

>     -sql "SELECT 'main' as type FROM Helsinki_pp_paareitit" Helsinki_pp_paareitit Helsinki_pp_paareitit

Reviewer: Työhakemiston sisältö:
```
❯ ls -al
total 8960
drwxr-xr-x  13 topias.heinonen  staff      416 Apr 11 15:37 .
drwx------+ 91 topias.heinonen  staff     2912 Apr 11 15:36 ..
-rw-r--r--@  1 topias.heinonen  staff        6 Aug 18  2020 Helsinki_pp_paareitit.cpg
-rw-r--r--@  1 topias.heinonen  staff  2253526 Aug 18  2020 Helsinki_pp_paareitit.dbf
-rw-r--r--@  1 topias.heinonen  staff      381 Aug 18  2020 Helsinki_pp_paareitit.prj
-rw-r--r--@  1 topias.heinonen  staff      604 Aug 18  2020 Helsinki_pp_paareitit.qpj
-rw-r--r--@  1 topias.heinonen  staff  1564808 Aug 18  2020 Helsinki_pp_paareitit.shp
-rw-r--r--@  1 topias.heinonen  staff   115644 Aug 18  2020 Helsinki_pp_paareitit.shx
-rw-r--r--@  1 topias.heinonen  staff   350125 Sep 19  2018 priorisoidut_reitit.dbf
-rw-r--r--@  1 topias.heinonen  staff      381 Sep 19  2018 priorisoidut_reitit.prj
-rw-r--r--@  1 topias.heinonen  staff      604 Sep 19  2018 priorisoidut_reitit.qpj
-rw-r--r--@  1 topias.heinonen  staff   246180 Sep 19  2018 priorisoidut_reitit.shp
-rw-r--r--@  1 topias.heinonen  staff    19396 Sep 19  2018 priorisoidut_reitit.shx
```

>     -sql "SELECT 'main' as type FROM Helsinki_pp_paareitit" Helsinki_pp_paareitit Helsinki_pp_paareitit

Author: Olitko ladannut nuo kaksi `zip` -tiedostoa ja purkanut ne? Eli hakemisto, jossa ajat `ogr2ogr` sisältää alihakemistoina (sisältöineen):
```
$ ls -l priorisoidut_reitit Helsinki_pp_paareitit
Helsinki_pp_paareitit:
total 3864
-rw-r--r-- 1 esa esa       6 elo    16  2022 Helsinki_pp_paareitit.cpg
-rw-r--r-- 1 esa esa 2253526 elo    16  2022 Helsinki_pp_paareitit.dbf
-rw-r--r-- 1 esa esa     381 elo    16  2022 Helsinki_pp_paareitit.prj
-rw-r--r-- 1 esa esa     604 elo    16  2022 Helsinki_pp_paareitit.qpj
-rw-r--r-- 1 esa esa 1564808 elo    16  2022 Helsinki_pp_paareitit.shp
-rw-r--r-- 1 esa esa  115644 elo    16  2022 Helsinki_pp_paareitit.shx

priorisoidut_reitit:
total 616
-rw-r--r-- 1 esa esa 350125 elo    16  2022 priorisoidut_reitit.dbf
-rw-r--r-- 1 esa esa    381 elo    16  2022 priorisoidut_reitit.prj
-rw-r--r-- 1 esa esa    604 elo    16  2022 priorisoidut_reitit.qpj
-rw-r--r-- 1 esa esa 246180 elo    16  2022 priorisoidut_reitit.shp
-rw-r--r-- 1 esa esa  19396 elo    16  2022 priorisoidut_reitit.shx
```

>     -sql "SELECT 'main' as type FROM Helsinki_pp_paareitit" Helsinki_pp_paareitit Helsinki_pp_paareitit

Author: Aivan, tuota ohjetta pitää tarkentaa tuolta osin. Jos samassa hakemistossa, pitää viitata tuohon shapefileen näin:
```
ogr2ogr -nln pp -nlt MULTILINESTRING \
    -f GPKG helsinki_cycleways.gpkg \
    -sql "SELECT 'main' as type FROM Helsinki_pp_paareitit" Helsinki_pp_paareitit.shp Helsinki_pp_paareitit
```

>     -sql "SELECT 'main' as type FROM Helsinki_pp_paareitit" Helsinki_pp_paareitit Helsinki_pp_paareitit

Author: Päivitän ohjeen, hyvä löytö.
